README.md, before:

# AI Bill Analyzer

An advanced, intuitive application that uses the power of multimodal AI to scan, analyze, and verify utility bills. It supports both Google Gemini for cloud-based processing and local Ollama models for offline privacy. Features include enhanced debugging, connection testing, dynamic model discovery, and interactive data verification to ensure accuracy.

![AI Bill Analyzer Screenshot](https://storage.googleapis.com/aistudio-ux-team-public/sdk-samples/bill-analyzer-screenshot.png)

## Core Features

-   **Dual AI Provider Support**: Seamlessly switch between **Google Gemini** (gemini-2.5-flash) for powerful cloud-based analysis and any local **Ollama** model for offline, privacy-focused processing.
-   **Intelligent OCR & Data Extraction**: Extracts key information including account details, line items, total charges, and complex usage data from bar charts.
-   **Interactive Data Verification**: If the AI is uncertain about a piece of data (e.g., a blurry number), it flags the field and asks the user a direct question for verification.
-   **Editable Data Tables**: All extracted data, especially from usage charts, is presented in editable tables, allowing you to correct any AI inaccuracies.
-   **Dynamic Ollama Integration**: Automatically tests the connection to your Ollama server and dynamically fetches a list of your available models.
-   **Data Export**: Export extracted line items and usage data to CSV with a single click for use in spreadsheets or financial software.
-   **Formspree Submission**: Securely submit the analyzed bill data to a configurable Formspree endpoint, perfect for sending results via email or triggering backend workflows.
-   **Advanced Debugging**: An optional real-time debug log provides deep insight into the application's state, API requests, and responses.
-   **Persistent History**: Your analysis history is saved in your browser's local storage, allowing you to revisit past bills.
-   **Dark Mode & Responsive UI**: A clean, modern interface that works beautifully on all screen sizes and includes a theme toggle.
-   **Ready to Deploy**: Comes with a multi-stage `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml` for easy, secure, and efficient containerized deployment.

---

## Getting Started (Local Development)

Follow these steps to run the AI Bill Analyzer on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18 or newer)
-   [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (usually included with Node.js)

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/ai-bill-analyzer.git
cd ai-bill-analyzer
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the root of the project by copying the example file:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Now, open the `.env` file and add your keys:

```
# Your Google Gemini API Key. Get one from Google AI Studio.
# This is required for the Gemini provider to work.
API_KEY="YOUR_GEMINI_API_KEY_HERE"

# Optional: Your Formspree form ID for the "Submit Results" button.
# Create a free form endpoint at https://formspree.io/
FORMSPREE_FORM_ID="YOUR_FORMSPREE_ID_HERE"
```

### 4. Build the Application

This command runs the `esbuild` bundler, which compiles the TypeScript/React code and injects your environment variables into the static assets in the `dist/` directory.

```bash
npm run build
```

### 5. Serve the Application

We'll use the `serve` package for a simple but effective local server.

```bash
npm start
```

Your AI Bill Analyzer is now running at `http://localhost:3000`.

---

## Deployment with Docker

Containerizing the application is the recommended way to deploy it in production.

### 1. Build the Docker Image

From the project root, run the following command. The build process will use the environment variables from your `.env` file.

```bash
docker-compose build
```

### 2. Run the Container

Start the application using Docker Compose. This will run the container in the background (`-d`).

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

The application is now accessible at `http://localhost:8080` (or whichever port you specified in `docker-compose.yml`).

### Changing the Port

To run the application on a different port, simply edit the `ports` section in the `docker-compose.yml` file. For example, to run on port `80`, change it to:

```yaml
services:
  app:
    # ...
    ports:
      - "80:80" # Maps host port 80 to container port 80
```

Then, rebuild and restart your container: `docker-compose up -d --build`.

### Stopping the Container

```bash
docker-compose down
```

---

## Technical Notes

### Why Formspree instead of SMTP?

Modern web browsers have strict security policies that prevent client-side JavaScript from directly connecting to an SMTP server. This is to protect user credentials and prevent browsers from being used to send spam. Formspree acts as a secure intermediary:
1.  The app sends the data to your Formspree endpoint.
2.  Formspree processes it on their secure server.
3.  Formspree sends the email or triggers a webhook on your behalf.

This is the industry-standard way to handle form submissions and email from static web applications.

### Why can't I save CSVs to a folder?

For the same security reasons, a web browser cannot write files directly to a user's file system. The application can only initiate a download, and the user (or their browser settings) determines the final save location, which is typically the "Downloads" folder. This protects users from malicious websites writing files without permission.

Commit message:

feat: Store and display raw AI bill analysis response
Includes the raw text response from the AI model in the `BillData` type and displays it in a collapsible section in the UI. This allows users to inspect the exact output received from the AI, aiding debugging and understanding.

Also introduces URL validation for Ollama service and improves the `serve` script in `package.json` for more flexible port selection.

README.md, after:

# AI Bill Analyzer

An advanced, intuitive application that uses the power of multimodal AI to scan, analyze, and verify utility bills. It supports both Google Gemini for cloud-based processing and local Ollama models for offline privacy. Features include enhanced debugging, connection testing, dynamic model discovery, and interactive data verification to ensure accuracy.

![AI Bill Analyzer Screenshot](https://storage.googleapis.com/aistudio-ux-team-public/sdk-samples/bill-analyzer-screenshot.png)

## Core Features

-   **Dual AI Provider Support**: Seamlessly switch between **Google Gemini** (gemini-2.5-flash) for powerful cloud-based analysis and any local **Ollama** model for offline, privacy-focused processing.
-   **Intelligent OCR & Data Extraction**: Extracts key information including account details, line items, total charges, and complex usage data from bar charts.
-   **Interactive Data Verification**: If the AI is uncertain about a piece of data (e.g., a blurry number), it flags the field and asks the user a direct question for verification.
-   **Editable Data Tables**: All extracted data, especially from usage charts, is presented in editable tables, allowing you to correct any AI inaccuracies.
-   **Dynamic Ollama Integration**: Automatically tests the connection to your Ollama server and dynamically fetches a list of your available models.
-   **Data Export**: Export extracted line items and usage data to CSV with a single click for use in spreadsheets or financial software.
-   **Formspree Submission**: Securely submit the analyzed bill data to a configurable Formspree endpoint, perfect for sending results via email or triggering backend workflows.
-   **Advanced Debugging**: An optional real-time debug log provides deep insight into the application's state, API requests, and responses.
-   **Persistent History**: Your analysis history is saved in your browser's local storage, allowing you to revisit past bills.
-   **Dark Mode & Responsive UI**: A clean, modern interface that works beautifully on all screen sizes and includes a theme toggle.
-   **Ready to Deploy**: Comes with a multi-stage `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml` for easy, secure, and efficient containerized deployment.

---

## Getting Started (Local Development)

Follow these steps to run the AI Bill Analyzer on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18 or newer)
-   [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (usually included with Node.js)

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/ai-bill-analyzer.git
cd ai-bill-analyzer
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 3. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the root of the project by copying the example file:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Now, open the `.env` file and add your keys:

```
# Your Google Gemini API Key. Get one from Google AI Studio.
# This is required for the Gemini provider to work.
API_KEY="YOUR_GEMINI_API_KEY_HERE"

# Optional: Your Formspree form ID for the "Submit Results" button.
# Create a free form endpoint at https://formspree.io/
FORMSPREE_FORM_ID="YOUR_FORMSPREE_ID_HERE"
```

### 4. Build the Application

This command runs the `esbuild` bundler, which compiles the TypeScript/React code and injects your environment variables into the static assets in the `dist/` directory.

```bash
npm run build
```

### 5. Serve the Application

We use the `serve` package for a simple but effective local server.

**To run on the default port (3000):**
```bash
npm start
```

**To specify a custom port (e.g., 5000):**
```bash
npm start -- -l 5000
```

Your AI Bill Analyzer is now running. Open your browser to the specified address (e.g., `http://localhost:3000` or `http://localhost:5000`).

---

## Deployment with Docker

Containerizing the application is the recommended way to deploy it in production.

### 1. Build the Docker Image

From the project root, run the following command. The build process will use the environment variables from your `.env` file.

```bash
docker-compose build
```

### 2. Run the Container

Start the application using Docker Compose. This will run the container in the background (`-d`).

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

The application is now accessible at `http://localhost:8080` (or whichever port you specified in `docker-compose.yml`).

### Changing the Port

To run the application on a different port, simply edit the `ports` section in the `docker-compose.yml` file. For example, to run on port `80`, change it to:

```yaml
services:
  app:
    # ...
    ports:
      - "80:80" # Maps host port 80 to container port 80
```

Then, rebuild and restart your container: `docker-compose up -d --build`.

### Stopping the Container

```bash
docker-compose down
```

---

## Technical Notes

### Why Formspree instead of SMTP?

Modern web browsers have strict security policies that prevent client-side JavaScript from directly connecting to an SMTP server. This is to protect user credentials and prevent browsers from being used to send spam. Formspree acts as a secure intermediary:
1.  The app sends the data to your Formspree endpoint.
2.  Formspree processes it on their secure server.
3.  Formspree sends the email or triggers a webhook on your behalf.

This is the industry-standard way to handle form submissions and email from static web applications.

### Why can't I save CSVs to a folder?

For the same security reasons, a web browser cannot write files directly to a user's file system. The application can only initiate a download, and the user (or their browser settings) determines the final save location, which is typically the "Downloads" folder. This protects users from malicious websites writing files without permission.
